---
template: blogPost
path: /personal/who-am-i
author:
  authorName: Eduardo Chavez
  personalWebsite: https://portfolio.echvzb.me
  twitterUsername: "@echvzb"
  profilePicture: /assets/author.jpg
date: 2021-01-19T22:11:49.364Z
title: Who is echvzb?
chapter: 0
serieData:
  serieName: Personal
  color: "#212121"
  textColor: "#fff"
  featureImage: /assets/personal-serie.jpg
metaDescription: I participated and was part of the selection of my state to
  represent it nationally in the 24th Mexican Olympiad in Informatics, in this
  competition I learned competitive programming with C / C++ programming
  language, from February to May I was immersed in this competition. Not only I
  learned to program competitively, it changed my mentality, my world, which for
  me is important.
seoImg: /assets/who-am-i.jpg
---
# Hello world!

I am echvzb, well... my name is Eduardo Chavez, this post is important because it is crucial to know about who are you reading: _"tell me who you read and I will tell you who you are"_. You know people are different in the world, we come from different worlds and realities, even in our countries.  

I think I need to denote who I am descriptively. I will write this post in a general form, as the time is going, I will deeply discuss my thoughts, my experiences and my philosophy.

So lets get started with the important things relative to me.

## Content.

1. [Where I come from.](#where-i-come)
2. [Philosophy and ideals](#ideals)
3. [Technological background: the main thing.](#tech-bg)
4. [What is next?](#whats-next)

<div id='where-i-come'></div>

## Where I come from.

I am 19 years old, my native language is Spanish, I am from Mexico, I live in the state of Puebla, in the city of Puebla, I am currently studying computer science at [Meritorious Autonomous University of Puebla](https://www.buap.mx/).

<div id='ideals'></div>

## Philosophy and ideals.
The most important things for me are values and ethics, my decisions must be based on that, what I can and cannot do, my limits.

Being consistent, I believe that if you say you are this or that, it must be with responsibility and commitment that what you say is true, I bet this is because of my interests in the exact sciences, nothing should be ambiguous. In my country what is left over is ambiguity, especially from politicians.

One of my beliefs is that in order to improve our context, it is the obligation of each one of us. The context is not only at a national level, but at a personal level, nobody will come to change our life, it is not convenient to wait for it, we are the ones who must do it. Therefore, in my opinion, we need education, but for me it should'nt be a privilege of a few, it should be a human right for everyone. It is something very idealistic, I have this commitment to provide education based on my method and truth, it may not be the best, but I want to contribute.

In the past I wanted to be a politician, but once I had a talk with my uncle, understanding that there is another way to achieve it and that way is with technology.

I never feel satisfied with what I do or learn, it isn't because I am very demanding, It is because I always have in mind to achieve the best, the best is perhaps not at a regional level, for me it is at a global level, there are no borders in this sense, there are no limits to do things.

What I have learned from my family is that commitment not only to do things well, but to do more than what is expected of you, I try to reflect it, I may or may not achieve that, but I am committed to do it.

I am a nationalist, I am proud of my country, but I am not patriotic, I don't believe that the only country that exists is Mexico, "I don't get tangled up in the flag", but I am very proud of my culture.

I am a tough guy, the first one I am tough with is me, I have zero tolerance in my actions, I believe that we must demand every minute to achieve our goals.

<div id='tech-bg'></div>

## Technological background: the main thing.

This part is the most important thing in this publication, to tell the truth I don't like meritocracy, but it is important to know a little about myself in technology. Each one of the experiences I will publish them later in detail.

First of all everything starts formally in 2019, at the beginning of the year I saw the call for the 24th Mexican Olympiad in Informatics - Puebla and I decided to participate.
I was quite interested, the reason was something silly perhaps, the truth is that I participated because I was very interested in traveling, because in some talks with my family, they mentioned that sometimes we do things to achieve other things in life, such as work. 

I participated and was part of the selection of my state to represent it nationally in the 24th Olympiad of Informatics, in this competition I learned competitive programming with C / C++ programming language, from February to May I was immersed in this competition. Not only I learned to program competitively, it changed my mentality, my world, which for me is important.

At the same time I participated in a hackathon in a technological university in my city, it was a video game in Unity, with the C# language, I won the first place. In this journalistic note is such achievement (written in Spanish): ["Game to learn history, winners of Puebla propose App - e-consulta.com"](http://geeks.e-consulta.com/apps/video-juego-para-aprender-historia-proponen-ganadores-de-puebla-app/).

I had not programmed in such a way in the past, years ago I had only programmed in Basic and Pascal, but in a very basic way.

Then after not winning a medal at national level I began to prepare myself in my failures, at that time there was another important hackaton in my city, I wanted to participate and I prepared myself for months in C# and I won with a team the second place.

After that my goal was to specialize in a language, so for the rest of the year I was with Python, so far as such I was interested in doing personal projects, applications.

At the end of the year I was studying Django, the interesting thing is that I didn't have a solid preparation in the web, so I dedicated myself to prepare myself in web programming and I achieved the full stack in 7 months with 20 completed projects. This is my personal portfolio describing my skills: [echvzb.me](https://echvzb.me)

It snowballed, indirectly my main programming language became javascript, with good reason, I feel very comfortable using it.

<div id='whats-next'></div>
